Description - https://www.techtarget.com/searchnetworking/definition/File-Transfer-Protocol-FTP

FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is a client-server protocol that relies on two communications channels between the client and server: a command channel for controlling 
the conversation and a data channel for transmitting file content. FTP allows users to connect to a remote server, browse the files on that server, and transfer files 
between the local and remote machines.

FTP uses two channels to transfer data: a command channel and a data channel. The command channel is used for sending commands such as login credentials and file 
transfer requests, while the data channel is used for transferring the actual file data.

The control channel uses port 21 for communication, while the data channel can use either port 20 or a random port chosen by the server. When using active mode, 
the server uses port 20 to establish a connection to the client on a random port, whereas when using passive mode, the client initiates the data channel connection 
to the server on a random port. Passive mode is the default mode for most FTP clients, and is typically recommended for most use cases. However, in some situations, 
such as when the client is behind a firewall that only allows outgoing connections on certain ports, active mode may be necessary.

FTP clients are used to upload, download and manage files on a server. Some FTP clients:
FileZilla -  free FTP client for Windows, macOS and Linux that supports FTP, FTPS and SFTP
Transmit - FTP client for macOS that supports FTP and SSH
WinSCP - Windows FTP client that supports FTP, SSH and SFTP
WS_FTP -  Windows FTP client that supports SSH
Linux and Windows OSs have built-in command line ftp client

vsftpd
proftpd

FTP protocols:
FTP
SFTP
FTPS
TFTP

Anonymous FTP.
This is the most basic form of FTP. It provides support for data transfers without encrypting data or using a username and password. It's most commonly used for 
download of material that is allowed for unrestricted distribution. It also works on port 21. When Anonymous FTP login is allowed, login with username anonymous. 
The picture shows result of nmap -sC scan which detected that anonymous ftp login is allowed.

Parrot OS	
	
Command	            Functionallity
	
ftp -h	            Displays the help information for the FTP client in the terminal
ftp {ip_address}	  Connects to ftp server
help	              Displays a list of available FTP commands that are available to interact with the remote server's file system
dir	                Lists files and directories in the current directory in a long format
ls	                Lists files and directories in the current directory in a short format
ls -a	              Lists all files and directories in the current directory, including hidden files and directories
ls -la	            Lists all files and directories in the current directory, including hidden files and directories  in a long format
get {filename}     	Downloads a file from the remote FTP server to local machine

